tree-pictos
============

Some Python scripts for generating tree pictograms.

## Symbols syntax

- B | C : Broadleaved | Coniferous
- 0 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6: Number of lobes and dots around the symbol
- + | -: Convexity or concavity of the lobes
- d^{1 | 2 | 3}_{3 | 5}: Number of dots/"degrés" per lobes. Optional
- p | o : presence of a central point (p) or a central circle (o). Optional

E.g.: B3d²p

## Usage

Run `python3 main.py` to generate a svg file with a symbol, for each of the combinations:

- B | C : Broadleaved or Coniferous symbol, based on respectively `create_broadleaved_symbol` and `create_needleleaved_symbol` functions.
- Number of lobes, first argument of the `create_broadleaved_symbol` and `create_needleleaved_symbol` functions.
- Shape of the lobes: For broadleaved symbols. Can be `circular` (the symbol is a circle), `concave` or `convex`.
- Number of dots per lobes for the broadleaved symbols or branches for the needle-leaved symbols.
- Presence of a central point (`p`) or a central circle (`o`) or `None`

## Dependencies

svgwrite is the unique dependency. 

Use a virtual env:

```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install svgwrite
```

## Table of symbols

The script `table.py` makes a unique svg file of all combinations of symbols

## Species symbols matrix

The species - symbols matrix helps to attribute a tree species to a symbol, based on the table of symbols ("symbols-table.svg). The matrix can be filled with tree species name in the same order as in the symbols table generated by `table.py`.

The script `species.py` makes a svg file for each symbol from the matrix with the species name as the filename.

Some convention are used for the current mapping of species to their symbols:

For broadleaved trees:

- sometimes, the simplest symbol without dots and central points is for a generic _genus_.
- dots denote for spikes on the leaves and/or on branches
- presence of a central point for broadleaved is for trees with compound leaves

Needled-leaved/coniferous trees symbols are somehow classified following the phylogenetic classification (see https://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pinaceae):

- C3-symbols are for _Pinus_.
- C4-symbols are for _Pinoide_ except _Pinus_, i.e., _Larix_, _Picea_, _Pseudotsuga_.
- C5-symbols are for _Abietoideae_: mainly _Abies_, but also _Cedrus_ and _Tsuga_.
- Symbols without central point are from Europe, symbols with a central point (p) are from (North) America.
- _Larix sp._ have no dots.
